Skip to main content
UCI ICS logo

Admissions & Aid
The new Interdisciplinary Science and Engineering Building (ISEB) at UCI.
Your future starts here!

One of the leading schools of computing in the nation, ICS offers a broad range of undergraduate, graduate research, and graduate professional programs in Computer Science, Informatics, and Statistics with an emphasis on foundations, discovery, and experiential learning.

Apply Now

Welcome to ICS
Mission & History
Facts & Figures
Admissions
Undergraduate
Graduate
Paying for School
Undergraduate
Graduate

Programs & Advising
ZotHacks2022-PetrArchive
Student success starts here!

Undergraduate and graduate students enjoy limitless academic and extracurricular opportunities as part of the ICS community.

Build Your Student Experience

Undergraduate Programs
Majors & Minors
ICS Honors Program
Undergraduate Academic Advising
Graduate Programs
Research
Professional
Graduate Academic Advising
Student Experience
Outreach, Access & Inclusion
Career Development
Clubs & Organizations
Entrepreneurship
Undergraduate Research
ICS Tutoring Center
Campus Resources

Research & Departments
VR
Pushing the boundaries of computing.

Driven by curiosity and committed to positive change, our diverse community of faculty and students are pioneering computing technologies that are transforming our world.

Explore Our Research

Research at ICS
Research Areas
Departments
Computer Science
Informatics
Statistics
Institutes & Centers
Connected Learning Lab
Cybersecurity Policy & Research
Data Science
Future Health
Genomics & Bioinformatics
HPI Machine Learning & Data Science
Machine Learning & Intelligent Systems
Responsible, Ethical & Accessible Tech
Software Research
Impact
Faculty Awards & Honors
Student Awards & Honors
Placements in Academia
Technologies & Startups
People

News & Events
Neil Sahota
Innovate. Collaborate. Stimulate.

Get involved with the vibrant ICS community. Check out our news and participate in our events.

See What's Happening

Recent News
Faculty Spotlights
Student Spotlights
Research Spotlights
Alumni Spotlights
Upcoming Events
ICS Calendar
Seminar Series
ICS Distinguished Lecturer
Computer Science
Informatics
Statistics
Connected Learning Lab
Cybersecurity Policy & Research
Data Science
Future Health
Genomics & Bioinformatics
HPI Machine Learning & Data Science
Machine Learning & Intelligent Systems
Responsible, Ethical & Accessible Tech
Software Research
Reports & Publications

Alumni & Partners
1016UCIS90088-1460
Connecting with industry, engaging the community.

From sponsoring capstone projects and becoming a corporate partner to supporting student scholarships and recruiting ICS students and alumni, your partnering opportunities are endless in ICS.

Get Involved

Alumni
Events
Hall of Fame
Corporate & Community Engagement
Capstone Projects
Research Partnerships
Student Recruitment
Corporate Partners
Industry Advisory Board
Leadership Council
Make a Gift

Search
Search ICS…
Submit
Contact Us
Follow Us
Support Us
Mark Baldwin
Lecturer
 Informatics
baldwinm@uci.edu
markbaldw.in
DBH 5059
“While I enjoyed my time in industry, I find the work that I do with students much more fulfilling.”
From Industry to Academia
Mark Baldwin was an education major with a focus on computer science and secondary education before being swept up in the Internet boom of the late nineties. “I left behind my plans to teach to instead focus on a career in software development,” he says. He reversed course nearly 20 years later, after going to grad school to study human-computer interaction. “My original instincts for teaching resurfaced,” he says. “While I enjoyed my time in industry, I find the work that I do with students much more fulfilling.”

Accessibility and Assistive Technology
As an industry professional, Baldwin witnessed the obstacles that people with disabilities encounter with information and communications technology. “My decision to pursue a Ph.D. was largely influenced by my desire to make an impact within the fields of accessibility and assistive technology,” he says. His research now focuses on novel forms of computer interaction for people with visual impairments. Working with a non-profit called Makapo at the Newport Aquatic Center in Newport Beach, he developed the Cooperative Outrigger Paddling (CoOP) system, which lets people who are blind or low vision paddle alone in a canoe while a sighted guide remotely steers.

Experiential Learning
As an informatics lecturer, his teaching philosophy aligns most closely with constructionism. “I view my role in the classroom as a mediator, guiding students as they explore ideas that pique their interest,” he says. “I believe that learning is experiential and knowledge retention is most effective when personal interest is at its fullest.” He thus designs his courses to facilitate participation, encourage group work, and foster problem solving. He’s also always introducing accessible thinking into his teaching. “When my students enter the workforce,” he says, “they are prepared to bring principles of accessibility — and inclusive design more broadly — with them.”

Education
Ph.D., Informatics, University of California, Irvine, 2020

Master of Human Computer Interaction, Human Computer Interaction, Carnegie Mellon University, 2013

B.A., Computing, DePaul University, 2012

 

Research Areas
View Human-Computer Interaction
Human-Computer Interaction
Understanding how people adopt, adapt and respond to information systems...
View Accessible Computing
Accessible Computing
Designing tools that ensure equitable access to technology.
Recent News
View Guiding Light (Hana Hou!)
Highlight
Guiding Light (Hana Hou!)
March 6, 2024
See all news
logo-white
6210 Donald Bren Hall
Irvine, CA 92697-3425

(949) 824-7427

Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on YouTube
Add us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Instagram
Footer Navigation
Directory
Faculty & Staff Resources
Faculty & Staff Positions
Emergency Preparedness
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
UCI Home
UCI Directory
Campus Maps
© 2024 All Rights Reserved. UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences

